Having a state-of-the-art data center
here at the University at Albany I think
represents a huge
opportunity, a great benefit to everybody
on campus
We have 60 to 70 scientists all conducting
atmospheric science research
and they will require considerable  amount of computer power
an important new area of research for
the Center for Technology in
government is very computer intensive
how do we think about data
as a tool for making better decisions in
government. With the help of high
performance computing in
the type of research that we do, we can simulate nucleic acids like DNA, RNA
and they make the cell function. To do this
effectively we need large amount of computer
resources. The original data center was
opened in 1968 forty-five years is a
long time to ask a data center to be viable
I think we owe a nod to the original
engineers because that design was
prescient in many ways.  Nevertheless we
found ourselves in a position where the
data center and its inability to keep up
could potentially inhibit our research
initiatives.  The energy efficiency and
reliability of this facility
qualify us for grants that we would not
have qualified for previously.
The facility has earned some prestigious
certifications such as lead and Uptime
Institute
Tier three certification.  The facility was
designed with an eye towards reducing
duplication of efforts and creating
opportunities for organizational efficiencies.
We're hoping to provide data center
facilities for Empire State College
Hudson Valley is planning to locate
their
disk to disk backup here.  We think that
the data center's designed in such a way
to optimally operate these sophisticated
atmospheric science models
When we think about our technology at CTG
it's very often a way for us to engage
with our partners
and to develop data supported solutions
or strategies
With the kind of computing resources the
data center provides us with to be able to
scale-up these calculations do it in a much more efficient way
-   A project of this magnitude takes the
collaboration of many
but we're confident that we provided a
facility of lasting value